

## 2. Package Installation and Uninstallation
In Python, there are several command line tools that are widely used for package installation and uninstallation. These tools help developers manage their Python packages efficiently and easily. Some popular command line tools related to package installation and uninstallation in Python include pip, setuptools, and virtualenv.

### Install
To install these command line tools in Python, you can use either the package manager that comes with your operating system or Python's package manager, pip. 

If you are using Linux or macOS, you can install these tools using the package manager of your distribution (e.g., apt for Debian-based systems, brew for macOS). For example, to install pip, you can use the following command:

```
$ sudo apt install python3-pip  # For Debian-based systems
$ brew install python3  # For macOS
```

If you are using Windows, you can install these tools by downloading the official Python installer from the Python website (https://www.python.org/downloads/) and selecting the option to include pip during the installation process.

### Usage
1. pip: 
   - Package installation: To install a package using pip, you can use the following command:
     ```
     $ pip install package_name
     ```
     This will download and install the specified package.
     
   - Package uninstallation: To uninstall a package using pip, you can use the following command:
     ```
     $ pip uninstall package_name
     ```
     This will remove the specified package from your Python environment.

   If you're familiar with JavaScript, you might find npm (Node Package Manager) similar to pip. Both tools are used for package management and have similar functionalities.

2. setuptools:
   - Package installation: Setuptools is used for installing Python packages and handling dependencies. However, it is commonly used as a dependency for other tools. To install a package using setuptools, you can use the following command:
     ```
     $ python setup.py install
     ```
     
   - Package uninstallation: There is no direct command for uninstallation using setuptools. However, you can use the `pip uninstall` command to remove packages installed via setuptools.

3. virtualenv:
   - Package installation: Virtualenv is used to create isolated Python environments. To install virtualenv using pip, you can use the following command:
     ```
     $ pip install virtualenv
     ```
     
   - Package uninstallation: To uninstall virtualenv using pip, you can use the following command:
     ```
     $ pip uninstall virtualenv
     ```
     
   If you are coming from a JavaScript background, you might find similarities between virtualenv and tools like npm's nvm (Node Version Manager) or yarn workspaces.

### Documents
- [pip official documentation](https://pip.pypa.io/en/stable/)
- [setuptools official documentation](https://setuptools.pypa.io/en/latest/)
- [virtualenv official documentation](https://virtualenv.pypa.io/en/latest/)

